[The Adventures of Buster Bear by Thornton W. Burgess 1920]

I

BUSTER BEAR GOES FISHING


Buster Bear yawned as he lay on his comfortable bed of leaves and
watched the first early morning sunbeams creeping through the Green
Forest to chase out the Black Shadows. Once more he yawned, and slowly
got to his feet and shook himself. Then he walked over to a big
pine-tree, stood up on his hind legs, reached as high up on the trunk of
the tree as he could, and scratched the bark with his great claws. After
that he yawned until it seemed as if his jaws would crack, and then sat
down to think what he wanted for breakfast.

While he sat there, trying to make up his mind what would taste best, he
was listening to the sounds that told of the waking of all the little
people who live in the Green Forest. He heard Sammy Jay way off in the
distance screaming, "Thief! Thief!" and grinned. "I wonder," thought
Buster, "if some one has stolen Sammy's breakfast, or if he has stolen
the breakfast of some one else. Probably he is the thief himself."

He heard Chatterer the Red Squirrel scolding as fast as he could make
his tongue go and working himself into a terrible rage. "Must be that
Chatterer got out of bed the wrong way this morning," thought he.

He heard Blacky the Crow cawing at the top of his lungs, and he knew by
the sound that Blacky was getting into mischief of some kind. He heard
the sweet voices of happy little singers, and they were good to hear.
But most of all he listened to a merry, low, silvery laugh that never
stopped but went on and on, until he just felt as if he must laugh too.
It was the voice of the Laughing Brook. And as Buster listened it
suddenly came to him just what he wanted for breakfast.

"I'm going fishing," said he in his deep grumbly-rumbly voice to no one
in particular. "Yes, Sir, I'm going fishing. I want some fat trout for
my breakfast."

He shuffled along over to the Laughing Brook, and straight to a little
pool of which he knew, and as he drew near he took the greatest care not
to make the teeniest, weeniest bit of noise. Now it just happened that
early as he was, some one was before Buster Bear. When he came in sight
of the little pool, who should he see but another fisherman there, who
had already caught a fine fat trout. Who was it? Why, Little Joe Otter
to be sure. He was just climbing up the bank with the fat trout in his
mouth. Buster Bear's own mouth watered as he saw it. Little Joe sat down
on the bank and prepared to enjoy his breakfast. He hadn't seen Buster
Bear, and he didn't know that he or any one else was anywhere near.

Buster Bear tiptoed up very softly until he was right behind Little Joe
Otter. "Woof, woof!" said he in his deepest, most grumbly-rumbly voice.
"That's a very fine looking trout. I wouldn't mind if I had it myself."

Little Joe Otter gave a frightened squeal and without even turning to
see who was speaking dropped his fish and dived headfirst into the
Laughing Brook. Buster Bear sprang forward and with one of his big paws
caught the fat trout just as it was slipping back into the water.

"Here's your trout, Mr. Otter," said he, as Little Joe put his head out
of water to see who had frightened him so. "Come and get it."

[Illustration: "Here's your trout, Mr. Otter," said he. _Page 5._]

But Little Joe wouldn't. The fact is, he was afraid to. He snarled at
Buster Bear and called him a thief and everything bad he could think of.
Buster didn't seem to mind. He chuckled as if he thought it all a great
joke and repeated his invitation to Little Joe to come and get his fish.
But Little Joe just turned his back and went off down the Laughing Brook
in a great rage.

"It's too bad to waste such a fine fish," said Buster thoughtfully. "I
wonder what I'd better do with it." And while he was wondering, he ate
it all up. Then he started down the Laughing Brook to try to catch some
for himself.




II

LITTLE JOE OTTER GETS EVEN WITH BUSTER BEAR


Little Joe Otter was in a terrible rage. It was a bad beginning for a
beautiful day and Little Joe knew it. But who wouldn't be in a rage if
his breakfast was taken from him just as he was about to eat it? Anyway,
that is what Little Joe told Billy Mink. Perhaps he didn't tell it quite
exactly as it was, but you know he was very badly frightened at the
time.

"I was sitting on the bank of the Laughing Brook beside one of the
little pools," he told Billy Mink, "and was just going to eat a fat
trout I had caught, when who should come along but that great big
bully, Buster Bear. He took that fat trout away from me and ate it just
as if it belonged to him! I hate him! If I live long enough I'm going to
get even with him!"

Of course that wasn't nice talk and anything but a nice spirit, but
Little Joe Otter's temper is sometimes pretty short, especially when he
is hungry, and this time he had had no breakfast, you know.

Buster Bear hadn't actually taken the fish away from Little Joe. But
looking at the matter as Little Joe did, it amounted to the same thing.
You see, Buster knew perfectly well when he invited Little Joe to come
back and get it that Little Joe wouldn't dare do anything of the kind.

"Where is he now?" asked Billy Mink.

"He's somewhere up the Laughing Brook. I wish he'd fall in and get
drowned!" snapped Little Joe.

Billy Mink just had to laugh. The idea of great big Buster Bear getting
drowned in the Laughing Brook was too funny. There wasn't water enough
in it anywhere except down in the Smiling Pool, and that was on the
Green Meadows, where Buster had never been known to go. "Let's go see
what he is doing," said Billy Mink.

At first Little Joe didn't want to, but at last his curiosity got the
better of his fear, and he agreed. So the two little brown-coated scamps
turned down the Laughing Brook, taking the greatest care to keep out of
sight themselves. They had gone only a little way when Billy Mink
whispered: "Sh-h! There he is."

Sure enough, there was Buster Bear sitting close beside a little pool
and looking into it very intently.

"What's he doing?" asked Little Joe Otter, as Buster Bear sat for the
longest time without moving.

Just then one of Buster's big paws went into the water as quick as a
flash and scooped out a trout that had ventured too near.

"He's fishing!" exclaimed Billy Mink.

And that is just what Buster Bear was doing, and it was very plain to
see that he was having great fun. When he had eaten the trout he had
caught, he moved along to the next little pool.

"They are _our_ fish!" said Little Joe fiercely. "He has no business
catching _our_ fish!"

"I don't see how we are going to stop him," said Billy Mink.

"I do!" cried Little Joe, into whose head an idea had just popped. "I'm
going to drive all the fish out of the little pools and muddy the water
all up. Then we'll see how many fish he will get! Just you watch me get
even with Buster Bear."

Little Joe slipped swiftly into the water and swam straight to the
little pool that Buster Bear would try next. He frightened the fish so
that they fled in every direction. Then he stirred up the mud until the
water was so dirty that Buster couldn't have seen a fish right under his
nose. He did the same thing in the next pool and the next. Buster Bear's
fishing was spoiled for that day.




III

BUSTER BEAR IS GREATLY PUZZLED


Buster Bear hadn't enjoyed himself so much since he came to the Green
Forest to live. His fun began when he surprised Little Joe Otter on the
bank of a little pool in the Laughing Brook and Little Joe was so
frightened that he dropped a fat trout he had just caught. It had seemed
like a great joke to Buster Bear, and he had chuckled over it all the
time he was eating the fat trout. When he had finished it, he started on
to do some fishing himself.

Presently he came to another little pool. He stole up to it very, very
softly, so as not to frighten the fish. Then he sat down close to the
edge of it and didn't move. Buster learned a long time ago that a
fisherman must be patient unless, like Little Joe Otter, he is just as
much at home in the water as the fish themselves, and can swim fast
enough to catch them by chasing them. So he didn't move so much as an
eye lash. He was so still that he looked almost like the stump of an old
tree. Perhaps that is what the fish thought he was, for pretty soon, two
or three swam right in close to where he was sitting. Now Buster Bear
may be big and clumsy looking, but there isn't anything that can move
much quicker than one of those big paws of his when he wants it to. One
of them moved now, and quicker than a wink had scooped one of those
foolish fish out on to the bank.

Buster's little eyes twinkled, and he smacked his lips as he moved on
to the next little pool, for he knew that it was of no use to stay
longer at the first one. The fish were so frightened that they wouldn't
come back for a long, long time. At the next little pool the same thing
happened. By this time Buster Bear was in fine spirits. It was fun to
catch the fish, and it was still more fun to eat them. What finer
breakfast could any one have than fresh-caught trout? No wonder he felt
good! But it takes more than three trout to fill Buster Bear's stomach,
so he kept on to the next little pool.

But this little pool, instead of being beautiful and clear so that
Buster could see right to the bottom of it and so tell if there were any
fish there, was so muddy that he couldn't see into it at all. It looked
as if some one had just stirred up all the mud at the bottom.

"Huh!" said Buster Bear. "It's of no use to try to fish here. I would
just waste my time. I'll try the next pool."

So he went on to the next little pool. He found this just as muddy as
the other. Then he went on to another, and this was no better. Buster
sat d